installtypes file format:

typename:description filetype|location (one blank line to end one
installtype and begin the next)

You can specify a unix path in location, or 'userdir' to indicate that
the user should be prompted and asked which directory they want to
install into. Bugzilla will attempt to provide them with a reasonible
default.

Most packagers will not want to change very many installlayout settings.
It is important to ensure that 'res' has the appearence of being in the
same directory as cgi and req to the http server, though this can be
accomplished through careful configuration of your httpd.conf config
files. req and cgi should almost always be in the same directory
however. tst can be set to null for systems where the tests are unwanted
or unnessicary (they will be run upon installation and upgrading as part
of the 'make test' process. tem can be set to any path wanted, the
template search/include path in Bugzilla will be set automatically. mod
may also be set anywhere, use lib lines will be added to Bugzilla
scripts.

The doc setting is "magical" in that a third paramater is used to set
which types of documentation is installed. This may be set to 'all' and
all types of documents will be copied, or to any one of the supported
documentation types (with a corresponding directory in bugzilla/docs/)

Filetypes: res: resources (images, html, js, etc) cgi: cgi files mod:
modules req: something that must be with the other cgi scripts for
bugzilla to work null: not needed in the dist, discard tst: tests

You MUST add any new files to the filemappings file or it will not be
copied into the installed dist. The tests will check for this.

Do _not_ include any documentation or templates in the filemappings
list, the makefile has special rules written in to accomidate these.


