
NETSCAPE CLIENT PRODUCTS LICENSE AGREEMENT
Redistribution Or Rental Not Permitted

These terms apply to Personal Security Manager.

BY CLICKING THE ACCEPTANCE BUTTON OR INSTALLING OR
USING PERSONAL SECURITY MANAGER SOFTWARE (THE "PRODUCT"), 
THE INDIVIDUAL OR ENTITY LICENSING THE PRODUCT
("LICENSEE") IS CONSENTING TO BE BOUND BY AND IS
BECOMING A PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT.  IF LICENSEE DOES
NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE
BUTTON INDICATING NON-ACCEPTANCE MUST BE
SELECTED, AND LICENSEE MUST NOT INSTALL OR USE
THE SOFTWARE.

1. LICENSE AGREEMENT.  As used in this Agreement, for
residents of Europe, the Middle East or Africa,
"Netscape" shall mean Netscape Communications Ireland
Limited; for residents of Japan, "Netscape" shall
mean Netscape Communications (Japan), Ltd.; for
residents of all other countries, "Netscape" shall
mean Netscape Communications Corporation.  In this
Agreement "Licensor" shall mean Netscape except under
the following circumstances: (i) if Licensee acquired
the Product as a bundled component of a third party
product or service, then such third party shall be
Licensor; and (ii) if any third party software is
included as part of the default installation and no
license is presented for acceptance the first time
that third party software is invoked, then the use of
that third party software shall be governed by this
Agreement, but the term "Licensor," with respect to
such third party software, shall mean the
manufacturer of that software and not Netscape.  With
the exception of the situation described in (ii)
above, the use of any included third party software
product shall be governed by the third party's
license agreement and not by this Agreement, whether
that license agreement is presented for acceptance
the first time that the third party software is
invoked, is included in a file in electronic form, or
is included in the package in printed form.  If more
than one license agreement was provided for the
Product, and the terms vary, the order of precedence
of those license agreements is as follows: a signed
agreement, a license agreement available for review
on the Netscape website, a printed or electronic
agreement that states clearly that it supersedes
other agreements, a printed agreement provided with
the Product, an electronic agreement provided with
the Product.

2. LICENSE GRANT.  Licensor grants Licensee a
non-exclusive and non-transferable license to
reproduce and use for personal or internal business
purposes the executable code version of the Product,
provided any copy must contain all of the original
proprietary notices.  This license does not entitle
Licensee to receive from Netscape hard-copy
documentation, technical support, telephone
assistance, or enhancements or updates to the
Product.  Licensee may not customize the Product
unless Licensee has also licensed the Netscape
Client Customization Kit ("CCK"), and then only to
the extent permitted in the license agreement for CCK,
as applicable.  Licensee may not redistribute the
Product unless Licensee has separately entered into a
distribution agreement with Netscape such as the
Unlimited Distribution Program Agreement.

3. RESTRICTIONS.  Except as otherwise expressly
permitted in this Agreement, or in another Netscape
agreement to which Licensee is a party such as the
CCK license agreement or a distribution agreement,
Licensee may not: (i) modify or create any derivative
works of the Product or documentation, including translation
or localization; (ii) decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer,
or otherwise attempt to derive the source code for the
Product (except to the extent applicable laws
specifically prohibit such restriction or as provided by the
Netscape Public License or Mozilla Public License
for portions of the product governed by those licenses);
(iii) redistribute, encumber, sell, rent, lease,
sublicense, or otherwise transfer rights to the
Product; (iv) remove or alter any trademark, logo,
copyright or other proprietary notices, legends,
symbols or labels in the Product; or (v) publish any
results of benchmark tests run on the Product to a
third party without Netscape's prior written
consent.

4. FEES.  There is no license fee for the Product.
If Licensee wishes to receive the Product on media,
there may be a small charge for the media and for
shipping and handling.  Licensee is responsible for
any and all taxes.

5. TERMINATION.  Without prejudice to any other
rights, Licensor may terminate this Agreement if
Licensee breaches any of its terms and conditions.
Upon termination, Licensee shall destroy all copies
of the Product.

6. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS.  Title, ownership rights, and
intellectual property rights in the Product shall
remain in Netscape and/or its suppliers.  Licensee
acknowledges such ownership and intellectual property
rights and will not take any action to jeopardize,
limit or interfere in any manner with Netscape's or
its suppliers' ownership of or rights with respect to
the Product.  The Product is protected by copyright
and other intellectual property laws and by
international treaties.  Title and related rights in
the content accessed through the Product is the
property of the applicable content owner and is
protected by applicable law.  The license granted
under this Agreement gives Licensee no rights to such
content.

7. USE AND AVAILABILITY OF OPEN SOURCE
CODE. Portions of Personal Security Manager were created using source
code governed by the Netscape Public License (NPL) and
the Mozilla Public License (MPL).  The source code for
the portions of Personal Security Manager governed by the NPL and MPL
is available from http://www.mozilla.org under those licenses.

8. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.  THE PRODUCT IS PROVIDED
FREE OF CHARGE, AND, THEREFORE, ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION THE WARRANTIES THAT IT IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR
NON-INFRINGING.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY
AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PRODUCT IS BORNE BY LICENSEE.
SHOULD THE PRODUCT PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT,
LICENSEE AND NOT LICENSOR OR ITS SUPPLIERS OR
RESELLERS OR ANY CONTRIBUTORS TO THE SOURCE CODE
OF THE PORTIONS OF PERSONAL SECURITY MANAGER AVAILABLE FROM
HTTP://WWW.MOZILLA.ORG ASSUMES THE ENTIRE COST
OF ANY SERVICE AND REPAIR.  IN ADDITION, THE SECURITY
MECHANISMS IMPLEMENTED BY THE PRODUCT HAVE
INHERENT LIMITATIONS, AND LICENSEE MUST DETERMINE
THAT THE PRODUCT SUFFICIENTLY MEETS ITS REQUIREMENTS.
THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL
PART OF THIS AGREEMENT.  NO USE OF THE PRODUCT IS
AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL
LICENSOR OR ITS SUPPLIERS OR RESELLERS OR ANY
CONTRIBUTORS TO THE SOURCE CODE OF THE PORTIONS OF 
PERSONAL SECURITY MANAGER AVAILABLE FROM
HTTP://WWW.MOZILLA.ORG BE LIABLE FOR
ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE
THE PRODUCT, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES
FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE
OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL
DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
THEREOF, AND REGARDLESS OF THE LEGAL OR EQUITABLE
THEORY (CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) UPON WHICH THE
CLAIM IS BASED.  IN ANY CASE, LICENSOR'S ENTIRE
LIABILITY UNDER ANY PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL
NOT EXCEED IN THE AGGREGATE THE SUM OF THE FEES
LICENSEE PAID FOR THIS LICENSE (IF ANY) AND FEES FOR
SUPPORT OF THE PRODUCT RECEIVED BY NETSCAPE UNDER A
SEPARATE SUPPORT AGREEMENT (IF ANY), WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY CAUSED BY THE
NEGLIGENCE OF LICENSOR TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW
PROHIBITS THE LIMITATION OF DAMAGES IN SUCH CASES.
SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR
LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO
THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT BE APPLICABLE.
NETSCAPE IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY LIABILITY ARISING
OUT OF CONTENT PROVIDED BY LICENSEE OR A THIRD PARTY
THAT IS ACCESSED THROUGH THE PRODUCT AND/OR ANY
MATERIAL LINKED THROUGH SUCH CONTENT.

10. ENCRYPTION.  If Licensee wishes to use the
cryptographic features of the Product, then Licensee
may need to obtain and install a signed digital
certificate from a certificate authority or a
certificate server.  Licensee may be charged
additional fees for certification services.  Licensee
is responsible for maintaining the security of the
environment in which the Product is used and the
integrity of the private key file used with the
Product.  In addition, the use of digital
certificates is subject to the terms specified by the
certificate provider, and there are inherent
limitations in the capabilities of digital
certificates.  If Licensee is sending or receiving
digital certificates, Licensee is responsible for
familiarizing itself with and evaluating such terms
and limitations.  If the Product is a version with
FORTEZZA, Licensee will need to obtain PC Card
Readers and FORTEZZA Crypto Cards from another vendor
to enable the FORTEZZA features.

11. EXPORT CONTROL.  Licensee agrees to comply with
all export laws and restrictions and regulations of
the United States or foreign agencies or authorities,
and not to export or re-export the Product or any
direct product thereof in violation of any such
restrictions, laws or regulations, or without all
necessary approvals.  As applicable, each party shall
obtain and bear all expenses relating to any
necessary licenses and/or exemptions with respect to
its own export of the Product from the U.S.  Neither
the Product nor the underlying information or
technology may be downloaded or otherwise exported or
re-exported (i) into Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North
Korea, Sudan, Syria or any other country subject to
U.S. trade sanctions covering the Product, to
individuals or entities controlled by such countries,
or to nationals or residents of such countries other
than nationals who are lawfully admitted permanent
residents of countries not subject to such sanctions;
or (ii) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's
list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked
Persons or the U.S. Commerce Department's Table of
Denial Orders.  By downloading or using the Product,
Licensee agrees to the foregoing and represents and
warrants that it complies with these conditions.

12. HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES.  The Product is not
fault-tolerant and is not designed, manufactured or
intended for use or resale as on-line control
equipment in hazardous environments requiring
fail-safe performance, such as in the operation of
nuclear facilities, aircraft navigation or
communication systems, air traffic control, direct
life support machines, or weapons systems, in which
the failure of the Product could lead directly to
death, personal injury, or severe physical or
environmental damage ("High Risk Activities").
Accordingly, Licensor and its suppliers specifically
disclaim any express or implied warranty of fitness
for High Risk Activities.  Licensee agrees that
Licensor and its suppliers will not be liable for any
claims or damages arising from the use of the Product
in such applications.

13. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.  The Product is a
"commercial item," as that term is defined in 48
C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial
computer software" and "commercial computer software
documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R.
12.212 (Sept.  1995).  Consistent with 48 C.F.R.
12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4
(June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire
the Product with only those rights set forth herein.

13. MISCELLANEOUS.  (a) This Agreement constitutes
the entire agreement between the parties concerning
the subject matter hereof.  (b) This Agreement may be
amended only by a writing signed by both parties.
(c) Except to the extent applicable law, if any,
provides otherwise, this Agreement shall be governed
by the laws of the State of California, U.S.A.,
excluding its conflict of law provisions.  (d) Unless
otherwise agreed in writing, all disputes relating to
this Agreement (excepting any dispute relating to
intellectual property rights) shall be subject to
final and binding arbitration in Santa Clara County,
California, under the auspices of JAMS/EndDispute,
with the losing party paying all costs of
arbitration.  (e) This Agreement shall not be
governed by the United Nations Convention on
Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.  (f)
If any provision in this Agreement should be held
illegal or unenforceable by a court having
jurisdiction, such provision shall be modified to the
extent necessary to render it enforceable without
losing its intent, or severed from this Agreement if
no such modification is possible, and other
provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full
force and effect.  (g) The controlling language of
this Agreement is English.  If Licensee has received
a translation into another language, it has been
provided for Licensee's convenience only.  (h) A
waiver by either party of any term or condition of
this Agreement or any breach thereof, in any one
instance, shall not waive such term or condition or
any subsequent breach thereof.  (i) The provisions of
this Agreement which require or contemplate
performance after the expiration or termination of
this Agreement shall be enforceable notwithstanding
said expiration or termination.  (j) Licensee may not
assign or otherwise transfer by operation of law or
otherwise this Agreement or any rights or obligations
herein except in the case of a merger or the sale of
all or substantially all of Licensee's assets to
another entity.  (k) This Agreement shall be binding
upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties,
their successors and permitted assigns.  (l) Neither
party shall be in default or be liable for any delay,
failure in performance (excepting the obligation to
pay) or interruption of service resulting directly or
indirectly from any cause beyond its reasonable
control.  (m) The relationship between Licensor and
Licensee is that of independent contractors and
neither Licensee nor its agents shall have any
authority to bind Licensor in any way.  (n) If any
dispute arises under this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be reimbursed by the other party for any
and all legal fees and costs associated therewith.
(o) If any Netscape professional services are being
provided, then such professional services are
provided pursuant to the terms of a separate
Professional Services Agreement between Netscape and
Licensee.  The parties acknowledge that such services
are acquired independently of the Product licensed
hereunder, and that provision of such services is not
essential to the functionality of such Product.  (p)
The headings to the sections of this Agreement are
used for convenience only and shall have no
substantive meaning.  (q) Licensor may use Licensee's
name in any customer reference list or in any press
release issued by Licensor regarding the licensing of
the Product and/or provide Licensee's name and the
names of the Product licensed by Licensee to third
parties.

14. LICENSEE OUTSIDE THE U.S.  If Licensee is located
outside the U.S., then the provisions of this Section
shall apply.  (i) Les parties aux presentes
confirment leur volonte que cette convention de meme
que tous les documents y compris tout avis qui s'y
rattache, soient rediges en langue anglaise.
(translation: "The parties confirm that this
Agreement and all related documentation is and will
be in the English language.")  (ii) Licensee is
responsible for complying with any local laws in its
jurisdiction which might impact its right to import,
export or use the Product, and Licensee represents
that it has complied with any regulations or
registration procedures required by applicable law to
make this license enforceable.


Netscape Client Software EULA           Rev. [022500]

