# Options for client.mk.

mk_add_options MOZ_OBJDIR=@TOPSRCDIR@/obj-small-opt-static

ac_add_options --enable-default-toolkit=gtk2

#Font and Intl

MOZ_ENABLE_COREXFONTS=0
ac_add_options --enable-xft
ac_add_options --disable-freetype2
ac_add_options --enable-native-uconv


ac_add_options --enable-extensions=cookie

ac_add_options --disable-mailnews
ac_add_options --disable-ldap	

ac_add_options --disable-postscript
ac_add_options --disable-xprint
ac_add_options --enable-crypto
ac_add_options --disable-jsd
ac_add_options --disable-accessibility
ac_add_options --disable-composer

ac_add_options --disable-mathml

ac_add_options --enable-plaintext-editor-only
ac_add_options --disable-installer
ac_add_options --disable-tests
ac_add_options --enable-optimize=-O
ac_add_options --disable-dtd-debug
ac_add_options --disable-logging

ac_add_options --disable-debug
ac_add_options --enable-strip

ac_add_options --disable-shared
ac_add_options --enable-static

ac_add_options --disable-xul

ac_add_options --disable-xpinstall
ac_add_options --disable-jsloader
ac_add_options --enable-single-profile
ac_add_options --disable-xpfe-components

ac_add_options --disable-disk-cache
ac_add_options --disable-dns-cache
ac_add_options --enable-protocols=http,file,res,jar

ac_add_options --enable-image-decoders=png,gif,jpeg


